What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

    git init : used to initialize a repository
               this command creates the resository as a hidden direrctory (.git)
               it is needed for the purpose of tracking all the files that has been 
               commited. 
 
     git status: gives the status of the untracted files i.e. those that are not 
                 commited. 
 
How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?
What value do you think it offers?

    The staging area is an intermediate area that lies between the working directory 
    and the repository. Our objective is to have small commits with one commit per 
    logical change. But instead of directly adding the files to the repository the 
    files are first added to the staging area. Later on the files in the staging area 
    are bundled together and then commited to the repository. The staging area gives 
    more control to the programmers; as they can commit the files together.

    git add filename: this adds the file with the corresponding file name to the 
                      staging area.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical
change?

    The files are added to the staging area as and when desied by the programmer.
    One logical change may compirse of changes to more than one file. These files 
    can be added to the staging area. Later on; all these files can be commited 
    togther and described by a single logical description.

    git commit : moves the files from staging area to repository. 

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history
organized? How would branches help?

    Usually commits are a linear sequence. It may comprise of changes such as fixing
    bugs or adding new features or updating documents. However there might be situations
    when an experimental change may be introduced or a slightly different version of the
    present version may be introduced.Such a situation suffices the creation of a branch.

    So that if these changes turned out to be unsuccessful then there would be a provision 
    to get back as brances have labels; also there would be no affects on the original version
    (i.e. master branch). Later on the branches could also be merged with the master branch 
    if fruitful. 

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
    
    Diagrams representing branches gives a good and clear understanding about when the branches
    take place ; the commits that take place after the branch. 
    The diagram aslo describes the parent child relationship between commits.
    In addition it gives a clear illustration of the commits reachable from the tip of the branches.


What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in
the diagram the way we do?

    Whenever two branches are merged ;all the commits in the branches are compared with the commits 
    in the parent of the two branches.

       The changes (i.e. both lines added & lines removed) that are common in both branches are retianed.

       The lines in the parent that are removed by the first branch but retained by the second branch
       are not included in the merged version. 

       Similarly the lines in the parent that are removed by the second branch but retained by the 
       first branch are also not included in the merged version. 

       The lines that are added by the first or second branch and are not present in the parent are 
       also included in the merged version.

       All the changes that are included in the merged version are ordered using the timestamp of the 
       changes that are made.

    The diagrams are drawn to make out the master and the branch and as such ""the branch is merged into the master".


What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges
manually?
 
       Manually merging will be a nearly impossible task especially for large codes. 

     Using Git's feature merging essentially becomes very easy ; as it follows definte rules for merging.
     In addition to that it aslo highlights the conflict area within the code.
     This enables the programmers to decide upon the conflicts; this same task would take a lot of time if merging
     was done manually 